---
layout: post
published: false
title: The "infinite" universe
---
I often hear this being said a lot: 'we live in an infinite universe' in the context of either implying an infinite number of possibilities our life could take shape, or that there's so much more to explore in one's lifetime. I can't help but wonder how much merit this concept or theory has. This thought, like literally every other of my existential crisis, initially started as me feeling constrained by my daily routine - waking up every morning, showering, having breakfast, going to work ... * insert boring routine thing here * ... eventually getting to bed and calling it a day. Sure, you have your moments - catch a movie or two over the weekend, maybe go out on a nice dinner somewhere, and every once in a while take some time off for a vacation, but somewhere you realise that maybe life isn't as "infinite" as you once perceived, and that you're just stuck in an endless loop, with death as the only exit condition. Recently though, I started thinking about this concept in a more physical sense. If watching Rick and Morty made you think about the concept of multiple realities and multiple universes, then maybe you'd feel overwhelmed by this false sense of control - that by making decisions every second lets you control the reality you're in. In reality, however, you are just as much a part of the reality as everything else in it, and everything in your reality is (and this is one of the central points of this blog) **deterministic**. 

If you think about it, the physical world around you consists of various discrete tangible things - chair, table, air, etc. Each of these 'objects' has a deterministic set of attributes - the chair looks a certain way, feels a certain way, is made up of discrete set of materials. You can interact with these objects in a deterministic number of ways - you can sit on a chair, move the chair, throw the chair, destroy the chair  (if you're into that stuff...? Excuse the bad example here). But the idea is, there's only a finite number of ways you can interact with these objects around you. Remember when they teach you object-oriented programming by taking real life examples? That maybe an abstract class is furniture, which could have some variables like `material` - wood, glass, metal etc. and functions like - `move()`, `throw()`, and `destroy()`. Again, might not be the best example, but I'm going to stick with it for the sake of continuity (sue me :P). So, when you create a child class from furniture, like chair, the child inherits these attributes and functions, and 